Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome back to another episode of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Between Sermons. I'm your host, Brent, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: I get to be the. The man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can't even talk today. This is
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna be such a fun podcast. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: this is just evidence once again. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we don't edit, like, anything. Like, just,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, this is how it goes. All
Pastor Brent McQuay: right, so I'm Brent. I'm a pastor,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and our church is named Disciples Church,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and you're on our podcast right now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And here's what we're doing. We are
Pastor Brent McQuay: continuing our conversation from Sunday. And. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: what we love to be able to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do is a lot of times that
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sunday sermon can feel like just a
Pastor Brent McQuay: person talking at you. And so by
Pastor Brent McQuay: turning this into just dialogue conversation in
Pastor Brent McQuay: a small group setting, I think it
Pastor Brent McQuay: helps us dig a little bit deeper
Pastor Brent McQuay: into the content and really dig at
Pastor Brent McQuay: some of the application for what we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to communicate on the stage. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: in order to do that, I need
Pastor Brent McQuay: people to talk to and talk with.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, as always, Tyisha, you get
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be the number one victim of.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Victim. You know what? Yes. That's accurate,
Ti'heasha Beasley: definitely. And we all feel like it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: Monday today and it's actually Tuesday.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It is Tuesday, and then by the
Pastor Brent McQuay: time somebody's watching this, it'll be Wednesday.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I should close, like, what day
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was, but for me, it feels
Ti'heasha Beasley: like a Monday morning, and so it
Ti'heasha Beasley: all makes sense. So it's going to
Ti'heasha Beasley: be a fun podcast, but I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's going to be great because we
Ti'heasha Beasley: are joined by the lovely Ari. How
Ti'heasha Beasley: are you? I am tired.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You have an excuse, though. The rest
Pastor Brent McQuay: of us, we got no excuses.
Ari Ogunlana: New baby. Yes, she does. Good. She
Ari Ogunlana: sleeps through the night most of the
Ari Ogunlana: time, but the times that she does
Ari Ogunlana: is like, oh, man. Yes, man. So
Ari Ogunlana: I'm a little tired, but I'm happy
Ari Ogunlana: to be here for sure.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We are practicing the persevering part of
Ti'heasha Beasley: your message.
Ari Ogunlana: Absolutely.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So it was. It was such a
Ti'heasha Beasley: great message. Pastor Brent, you kind of
Ti'heasha Beasley: concluded our call series on Sunday and
Ti'heasha Beasley: so wrapped it up, man. Wrapped it
Ti'heasha Beasley: up.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And did I put a bow on
Pastor Brent McQuay: it?
Ti'heasha Beasley: You put a bow on it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sweet.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You did, Yes. I went looking for
Ti'heasha Beasley: you after service to tell you, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: man, I wish I would have heard
Ti'heasha Beasley: this like, a week or two ago,
Ti'heasha Beasley: because, I mean.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You could have just read Nehemiah a
Pastor Brent McQuay: week ago.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I've been reading Nehemiah. I've been reading
Ti'heasha Beasley: Nehemiah. But you have a superpower of,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, taking this scripture and making it
Ti'heasha Beasley: very, very applicable, like pulling out the
Ti'heasha Beasley: pre pray.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's high praise thank you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Praise God. So, like, pulling out
Ti'heasha Beasley: the. The prey, the plan, and the
Ti'heasha Beasley: persevere. Like, I didn't necessarily get that,
Ti'heasha Beasley: even though it's in the story, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's not laid out like that in
Ti'heasha Beasley: the story. So.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah, I had 30 visitors in attendance,
Ari Ogunlana: and they all gave good feedback. People
Ari Ogunlana: were taking notes. They asked me to
Ari Ogunlana: send notes from the app. So, yeah,
Ari Ogunlana: it was really enjoyable.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. I talked to. Oh, man. Now,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know who he was. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think he was on your husband's side
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the family.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: A taller guy, well dressed.
Ari Ogunlana: Mojiri.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Mojiri, yep. That's who I met. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: he had. He was loving all the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the Bible nerd facts and stuff
Pastor Brent McQuay: and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I guess he had just been in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Nehemiah here recently. That was cool.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Awesome. So for those who was not
Ti'heasha Beasley: in service with us, Ari dedicated her
Ti'heasha Beasley: baby girl. And so you and your
Ti'heasha Beasley: husband had your family in attendance, so
Ti'heasha Beasley: what a perfect way to like, conclude.
Ari Ogunlana: It was great. You know how, like,
Ari Ogunlana: when you invite people to church, you
Ari Ogunlana: just hope it's, like, the perfect vibe.
Ari Ogunlana: And so I was like, I know
Ari Ogunlana: it's gonna be good, but, like, I'm
Ari Ogunlana: praying it's extra good. And it was.
Ari Ogunlana: So I was very happy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, no, that's cool.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And. And you are a project manager.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, the subject matter was just,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like. I think you were just right
Pastor Brent McQuay: at home.
Ari Ogunlana: Oh, yeah, for sure, man. My favorite
Ari Ogunlana: series that Pastor Jerry has ever done
Ari Ogunlana: was about Nehemiah, the Good Work. I
Ari Ogunlana: will always remember it. It was just
Ari Ogunlana: so good, so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, man. I have to go back
Ti'heasha Beasley: and watch.
Ari Ogunlana: You have to go back? I think
Ari Ogunlana: it was, like, 2019.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. A while back.
Ari Ogunlana: It was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, I was here, but where was
Ti'heasha Beasley: I?
Ari Ogunlana: I was here, but that's my.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I still remember, like, the. The bumper
Pastor Brent McQuay: for it. It was like an anvil
Pastor Brent McQuay: and, like. Yeah, yeah, it was really
Pastor Brent McQuay: good. It was good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And if you're with me and you're
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, I don't remember it, let's go
Ti'heasha Beasley: back and watch it so together.
Ari Ogunlana: Yes, go back.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was really good. Awesome. Okay, so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, so we taught on Nehemiah Prior.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Pastor Jerry did it. 2019. What was
Ti'heasha Beasley: your spin on it this time around?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know that I had a
Pastor Brent McQuay: spin. I. I'm. I'm in this realization
Pastor Brent McQuay: phase of my ministry where I just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I like just walking through the Bible.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you're going to hear a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: more about that in the coming months
Pastor Brent McQuay: and years.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, yeah, so when I can just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When I can just Take a text
Pastor Brent McQuay: and just, just walk through it. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I enjoy the process more.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: As a communicator and, and it's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: to say, you know, the whole, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, expositional preacher method of, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm going to tell a personal story
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then we're going to highlight this
Pastor Brent McQuay: scripture and then we're going to jump
Pastor Brent McQuay: to this other book of the Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: and highlight this scripture. Like, it's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: that that's bad or wrong. It's just
Pastor Brent McQuay: the more and more I, I get
Pastor Brent McQuay: away from that and I just take
Pastor Brent McQuay: a text and I just walk through
Pastor Brent McQuay: it verse by verse. Like, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know if it's the nerd in me
Pastor Brent McQuay: or what, but it's just, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, I like it. It's fun.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think it's the, it's your style.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, it's your style. And I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's a timely thing for us being
Ti'heasha Beasley: Disciples Church. Because I will confess, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: in my younger Christian days, I did
Ti'heasha Beasley: not enjoy pastors walking verse by verse.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I felt like, no, like, give me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I felt like there couldn't be any
Ti'heasha Beasley: application with verse by verse because it
Ti'heasha Beasley: was like they were always trying to
Ti'heasha Beasley: show you Jesus in the scripture. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was like, how dare they? We
Ti'heasha Beasley: know Jesus is in the scripture. What
Ti'heasha Beasley: is the topic for this passage? And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so that was just the younger, dumber
Ti'heasha Beasley: Christian.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And sometimes it can be trickier
Pastor Brent McQuay: when you're doing a verse by verse
Pastor Brent McQuay: to pull out application, you know, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that some preachers will even
Pastor Brent McQuay: get in trouble when they try and
Pastor Brent McQuay: pull out application to something. And it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, hey, you do realize that that
Pastor Brent McQuay: wasn't written to 20, 25Americans sitting in
Pastor Brent McQuay: a church service. Like, there's a historical
Pastor Brent McQuay: context of that passage that the application
Pastor Brent McQuay: then is different than the application now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, so you can, it can be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little tricky. I think you also
Pastor Brent McQuay: have to be careful of. And this,
Pastor Brent McQuay: in some church circles, this is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad word, but it's entertainment. And that
Pastor Brent McQuay: can be a bad word for some
Pastor Brent McQuay: where they're like, I don't want any
Pastor Brent McQuay: entertainment. And it's like, well, no communicators
Pastor Brent McQuay: should be entertaining. Like, if you are
Pastor Brent McQuay: dry and boring, like, like that's, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, Yep.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like when Jesus communicated, he's always telling
Pastor Brent McQuay: stories and like you tell, like people
Pastor Brent McQuay: were hanging on every word. Like there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: multiple past talk about, you know, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: people didn't even really understand what he
Pastor Brent McQuay: was saying, but they kept coming back
Pastor Brent McQuay: for more. They're like, man, I want
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Hear more.
Ari Ogunlana: Absolutely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You know, and so if you're. If
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're boring with the text, like, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not going to.
Ari Ogunlana: So when.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So when I experienced this, I. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: was not here at Disciples Church or
Ti'heasha Beasley: Prior Christian Life Center. Let me just
Ti'heasha Beasley: put that disclaimer for clarity. It was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was another church, and I just
Ti'heasha Beasley: felt like more. So they were just
Ti'heasha Beasley: trying to use these. I don't know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just felt like it was. It
Ti'heasha Beasley: wasn't being utilized correctly. Like they were
Ti'heasha Beasley: trying to use Ali's big theology words
Ti'heasha Beasley: and. Yeah. Be deep. And I'm like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's often the. You know, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: challenge for the. The. The communicator is
Pastor Brent McQuay: what do I need to communicate versus,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, here's everything that I've learned
Pastor Brent McQuay: and everything that I know. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can show off, like, the fancy stuff,
Pastor Brent McQuay: right. But, like, does it help? Does
Pastor Brent McQuay: it add value like that? Honestly, that's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's usually one of my. My struggles
Pastor Brent McQuay: is like, I've got my research notes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I'm trying to pick and pull.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I'm like, but this is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: really cool thing for me. But I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, but I'm probably one of 10
Pastor Brent McQuay: people in the room that is going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be like, oh, that's cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, you have to, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's things that have to get left
Pastor Brent McQuay: behind.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It can be hard and. And like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: no, no shade. Like, there are. There
Pastor Brent McQuay: are pastors who are better communicators than
Pastor Brent McQuay: others, and there's some pastors that are
Pastor Brent McQuay: way more pastoral than others. Like, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way that they're able to care for
Pastor Brent McQuay: people, it's like, yeah, we. We fault
Pastor Brent McQuay: them because on a stage, they aren't
Pastor Brent McQuay: as polished, but, man, when they're in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the hospital room with somebody, like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't want anybody else, that's the guy
Pastor Brent McQuay: you want. So it's like everybody's got
Pastor Brent McQuay: different gifts and talents and abilities and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, we embrace it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: True. All right, well, really quick. What
Ti'heasha Beasley: I like to do, Ari, before we
Ti'heasha Beasley: jump into conversation, is get a recap
Ti'heasha Beasley: for those who didn't. Don't know about
Ti'heasha Beasley: the story of Nehemiah. Wasn't able to
Ti'heasha Beasley: attend service. So give us a quick
Ti'heasha Beasley: recap.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh, man. Quick. How quick you want
Pastor Brent McQuay: it? Because this is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Just give us a recap. Okay. All
Ti'heasha Beasley: right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So. So Nehemiah is the cup bearer
Pastor Brent McQuay: to King Artaxerxes in Persia. The book
Pastor Brent McQuay: of Nehemiah is the last of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: historical books in. In the Old Testament
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the Jewish texts, which is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: little bit weird. Controversial, because Esther actually
Pastor Brent McQuay: follows after Nehemiah, but Esther is in
Pastor Brent McQuay: this weird limbo where it's, it's kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of controversial, not always viewed as purely
Pastor Brent McQuay: historical. And so the Jewish people have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a weird relationship with it where it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of like a mix of. This
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually happened historically. And then others say
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's more of like a fable, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: to explain the festival of Purim. Purim,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't even know how to pronounce
Pastor Brent McQuay: the festival. Yeah, this is the nerdy
Pastor Brent McQuay: part. So anyways, it's the last of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the history books and it's talking. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: taking place at the. About a hundred
Pastor Brent McQuay: years after the exile has ended. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're in like the 6th century BC
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jewish people have completely rebelled against God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Repeatedly keeps making threats against them, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, you keep this up, I'm going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to let your enemies win. Keep this
Pastor Brent McQuay: up and let your enemies win. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: they messed around and found out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And, oh my God, trying to be
Ti'heasha Beasley: hip there. They mess around.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Look, you got a better way to
Pastor Brent McQuay: say it? Like, that's, that's what happens.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So they, they ended up in exile
Pastor Brent McQuay: in Babylon for 70 years. Persia conquers
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Babylonians, releases the Jewish people. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: Persian occupational occupation, occupation theory was, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't need to make everybody Persian. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: just need everybody to give us money
Pastor Brent McQuay: and fight in our armies. So you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can worship your gods, you can live
Pastor Brent McQuay: in your land, you can call yourselves
Pastor Brent McQuay: whatever you want to call yourselves. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't care. Just give us money and
Pastor Brent McQuay: when war comes, you're on our side.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so they basically just let all
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Jewish people go. But it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a 900 mile roughly distance from Babylon
Pastor Brent McQuay: to Israel to Jerusalem specifically. And it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: been 70 years. So a bunch of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jewish people are like, yeah, I ain't
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing that. I ain't going back. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so this is, this is actually like
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're. They're referred to in this time
Pastor Brent McQuay: period as the dispersion, because basically the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jewish people have now just spread all
Pastor Brent McQuay: over the place. But the remnant that
Pastor Brent McQuay: goes back and some that had still
Pastor Brent McQuay: lived in Jerusalem are trying to rebuild,
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything gets kicked off by a guy
Pastor Brent McQuay: whose name I can never pronounce. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not even going to try. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then a little bit after he goes
Pastor Brent McQuay: and rebuilds the temple, Ezra goes back
Pastor Brent McQuay: and reinitiates the sacrificial practice, the priestly
Pastor Brent McQuay: practices in the temple. But nobody has
Pastor Brent McQuay: addressed the fact that Jerusalem is sitting
Pastor Brent McQuay: there undefended. And so Nehemiah gets word
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, hey, yeah, you've rebuilt the temple.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hey, yeah, you've started worshiping God again.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But what are you doing with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: city? And so Nehemiah gets really, really
Pastor Brent McQuay: upset by it. So he's weeping, he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: mourning, he's fasting and praying. And he
Pastor Brent McQuay: finally gets to present his case to
Pastor Brent McQuay: King Artaxerxes and gets permission to go
Pastor Brent McQuay: and rebuild the walls. Gets the permits,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the supplies, goes back, rebuilds the walls
Pastor Brent McQuay: in 52 days. And it's just an
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing story of, like, what happens when
Pastor Brent McQuay: just a layperson steps up. Right. Because,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, he wasn't chosen. Like, there's no.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, God visited Nehemiah in a dream
Pastor Brent McQuay: and said, nehemiah, you're gonna be the
Pastor Brent McQuay: one. Like, literally, Nehemiah's like, hey, how's
Pastor Brent McQuay: it going back there? And they're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: oh, man, it's a mess. And he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, man, what do we do? All
Pastor Brent McQuay: right, let's do something.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Which, I don't know that, for me,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's always been, like, the. I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, the selling point of Nehemiah's story.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's like the.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What's so incredible to me is that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it wasn't a visitation from an angel.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It wasn't the king, it wasn't the
Pastor Brent McQuay: priest, it wasn't the prophet. It was
Pastor Brent McQuay: literally just a guy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. And a burden.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And a burden. Yeah. So. Yeah. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's the story of Nehemiah in a
Pastor Brent McQuay: nutshell. It's an interesting historical moment for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Jewish people. And, yeah, he's responsible
Pastor Brent McQuay: for rebuilding the walls in 52 days
Pastor Brent McQuay: when they had been left in ruin
Pastor Brent McQuay: for. I mean, from the time of
Pastor Brent McQuay: Babylon, but for at least. What did
Pastor Brent McQuay: I say, 36,500 days? Something like that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, that is. That's a. I wanna.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You know how they say live up
Ti'heasha Beasley: to some. Someone's standards, like rebuilding a
Ti'heasha Beasley: wall in 52 days? When you said
Ti'heasha Beasley: that, I was, like, the pressure. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: take every opportunity to put myself under
Ti'heasha Beasley: pressure. But, no, I. He couldn't have
Ti'heasha Beasley: done it without God. And that was
Ti'heasha Beasley: something he definitely highlighted in the sermon.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so, Ari, what was something that
Ti'heasha Beasley: stood out to you in this message?
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was like, when you heard it,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you were like, this is something that
Ti'heasha Beasley: is applicable to where I am.
Ari Ogunlana: Oh, man. I think the planning part
Ari Ogunlana: really stood out to me the most.
Ari Ogunlana: Only because, like. Like you said, he
Ari Ogunlana: prayed about it, he was angry enough
Ari Ogunlana: to do something about it, but when
Ari Ogunlana: he was asked what he was gonna
Ari Ogunlana: do, he had a plan. And so
Ari Ogunlana: I think that a lot of people
Ari Ogunlana: just don't even take the opportunity to
Ari Ogunlana: plan and so just seeing how he
Ari Ogunlana: did that and how detailed it was,
Ari Ogunlana: and even as the story goes on,
Ari Ogunlana: he has a plan for the attacks,
Ari Ogunlana: he has a plan for how to
Ari Ogunlana: protect the city even while they're rebuilding
Ari Ogunlana: the wall. And so all of those
Ari Ogunlana: things just make a difference. But he
Ari Ogunlana: couldn't have done it without the prayer
Ari Ogunlana: part. And so I think about my
Ari Ogunlana: own entrepreneurship journey. I think about people
Ari Ogunlana: that I know who are entrepreneurs or
Ari Ogunlana: just people who have their hands on
Ari Ogunlana: a lot of different things and how
Ari Ogunlana: they make a plan without the prayer,
Ari Ogunlana: and then it keeps failing. And so
Ari Ogunlana: it's like the prayer part, but also
Ari Ogunlana: the really detailed plan. It just.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh, we need both something.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, and, and I do think, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: as Christians, like, we, we will gravitate
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the prayer part and we'll be
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, well, God, you're going to have
Pastor Brent McQuay: to make it happen.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Cuz I don't know what to do.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, God, I need you to do
Pastor Brent McQuay: something. And he's like, all right, what
Pastor Brent McQuay: you gonna do?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Ari Ogunlana: I love Nehemiah for a couple of
Ari Ogunlana: different reasons, but the theme that really
Ari Ogunlana: stands out to me is like, a
Ari Ogunlana: social justice story of, like, he was
Ari Ogunlana: angry enough to do something about it.
Ari Ogunlana: And so I think a lot of
Ari Ogunlana: times we see stuff happening to people
Ari Ogunlana: that have nothing to do with us,
Ari Ogunlana: and we just do the prayer part,
Ari Ogunlana: right? We. We say, like, oh man,
Ari Ogunlana: Lord, help them or send someone to
Ari Ogunlana: help them. But what if he exposed
Ari Ogunlana: us to it for us to be
Ari Ogunlana: the people to do something about it?
Ari Ogunlana: So I love that he showed that
Ari Ogunlana: anger, showed that passion, but also, like,
Ari Ogunlana: thought about it deeply enough to pray
Ari Ogunlana: and plan. And so it just made
Ari Ogunlana: me.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it's that question of, like, when,
Pastor Brent McQuay: when will it bother you enough to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do something about it?
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's, that's kind of the thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: that I love. Like, so the, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: parallel that I usually give people is
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the organization Mad Mothers Against Drunk
Pastor Brent McQuay: Driving, like, it was formed because a
Pastor Brent McQuay: mother's daughter was killed in a drunk
Pastor Brent McQuay: driving accident. And she was like, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is not okay. Like, why isn't anybody
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing something to change the laws of
Pastor Brent McQuay: drunk driving and drinking and driving? Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: why can't we do something? And then
Pastor Brent McQuay: she's like, all right, I don't want
Pastor Brent McQuay: anybody else to grieve the way I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: grieved. And so she takes it upon
Pastor Brent McQuay: herself to do something. Like, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: that we, we need to recognize where
Pastor Brent McQuay: are the places where we grieve like
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, where we say, this is not
Pastor Brent McQuay: okay. This is not right. And then
Pastor Brent McQuay: that May be an indication that there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: something you're supposed to do about it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You could be driving past the same
Pastor Brent McQuay: homeless guy every day to work, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're just. You're like, man, somebody needs
Pastor Brent McQuay: to help this guy. Somebody needs to
Pastor Brent McQuay: help this guy. Somebody needs help. That
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody is probably you, Man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just wish that that was something
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's not necessarily taught. I wish it
Ti'heasha Beasley: was something that we were just built
Ti'heasha Beasley: with. And I say that because, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, working with, like, Gen Z and
Ti'heasha Beasley: Millennials, it's like they have these. They
Ti'heasha Beasley: see all of these things that need
Ti'heasha Beasley: to be addressed, and it's like, that
Ti'heasha Beasley: somebody needs. And I'm like, let's do
Ti'heasha Beasley: it. But then, like, it's like, well,
Ti'heasha Beasley: should I start a business to do
Ti'heasha Beasley: it? It's like, no. Like, you can
Ti'heasha Beasley: step up and be a leader. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: so many times we're waiting for someone
Ti'heasha Beasley: else to call us to. To take
Ti'heasha Beasley: leadership when there's so many opportunities to
Ti'heasha Beasley: step up and in the lead.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, the sad reality is criticism is
Pastor Brent McQuay: always easiest.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's easier to just identify a
Pastor Brent McQuay: problem than solve a problem.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's. That's always my. My challenge.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, there's times when I won't even
Pastor Brent McQuay: bring up a problem because I haven't
Pastor Brent McQuay: figured out a solution to it yet
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's good. And it's like, I know
Pastor Brent McQuay: that this thing is. Is wrong and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's broken, but I'm sure everybody else
Pastor Brent McQuay: knows it. Like, it. They don't need
Pastor Brent McQuay: me to be like, look at this
Pastor Brent McQuay: broken thing. It's like.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like they know it's not right. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: what's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What's going to be the solution? How
Pastor Brent McQuay: do we fix it?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Ari Ogunlana: But I even think the beautiful lesson
Ari Ogunlana: about Nehemiah is leaders. Sometimes you don't
Ari Ogunlana: get the answer. It's someone else. And
Ari Ogunlana: so just being humble enough to move
Ari Ogunlana: out of the way and let God
Ari Ogunlana: give someone else the plan so they
Ari Ogunlana: can do it, and it just makes
Ari Ogunlana: it easier for everyone. But I think
Ari Ogunlana: sometimes that as people, we lord over
Ari Ogunlana: the things that are under our care.
Ari Ogunlana: And it's like, you're not supposed to
Ari Ogunlana: lord over this. You're supposed to lead
Ari Ogunlana: it. Just lead and lead the way
Ari Ogunlana: that God is telling you to do.
Ari Ogunlana: And sometimes that makes you need to
Ari Ogunlana: accept that it's not your plan or
Ari Ogunlana: your strategy that needs to come into
Ari Ogunlana: play. And so I just think it's
Ari Ogunlana: such a beautiful story, because could you
Ari Ogunlana: imagine if they were like, no, you
Ari Ogunlana: can't do any of this. I don't
Ari Ogunlana: care what you say. And Some people
Ari Ogunlana: did push back on Nabaya, but ultimately
Ari Ogunlana: it happened. And so it wouldn't have
Ari Ogunlana: happened if someone was lording over it.
Ari Ogunlana: So I think it's pretty cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, you see a lot of empowerment
Ti'heasha Beasley: in this story of Nehemiah where I
Ti'heasha Beasley: even like how you brought out. They
Ti'heasha Beasley: built, rebuilt the wall that was in
Ti'heasha Beasley: front of their homes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah. He divided up the work
Pastor Brent McQuay: by families and basically just assigned, okay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: family, you guys live in this part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of town, so you build the wall
Pastor Brent McQuay: in that part of town. And it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was just, it really was like, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's one of those things. Like the
Pastor Brent McQuay: best strategies are the simplest. Yeah, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like, well, yeah, that's a no
Pastor Brent McQuay: brainer. Like, I mean, just have them
Pastor Brent McQuay: build the wall around their house. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, sometimes when you're coming to a
Pastor Brent McQuay: massive problem like this, you're like, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't even know where to begin.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All right, let's get all the workers,
Pastor Brent McQuay: let's go. Go start building over here.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he's like, no, no, no, everybody
Pastor Brent McQuay: do your thing where you need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And yeah, that was, that was top
Ti'heasha Beasley: tier for me. Because you think about
Ti'heasha Beasley: projects that you're over and working with
Ti'heasha Beasley: a, with a team and honestly, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: don't want to be the smartest person
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the room. You don.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Your.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The people you're working with to take
Ti'heasha Beasley: ownership. So I love how he empowered
Ti'heasha Beasley: people to take ownership of their space,
Ti'heasha Beasley: their communities. And ultimately it led to
Ti'heasha Beasley: like a wall being rebuilt as strong.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because I love how you pointed out,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, if you're building someone else's wall,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're not going to put as much
Ti'heasha Beasley: energy. Like, you'll try.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like. Like I felt bad. Like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think I called out Carlton in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: first service. But like, the reality is
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, that's true, man. Maybe day one,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm working as hard as I possibly
Pastor Brent McQuay: can, right? Like day 50, am I
Pastor Brent McQuay: still putting in the same level of
Pastor Brent McQuay: effort? Like, I'm tired now, man. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: if it's protecting my house, like, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm gonna work hard, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But think about what can happen in
Ti'heasha Beasley: your local church. If everyone had this
Ti'heasha Beasley: area, they felt burdened to this, they
Ti'heasha Beasley: felt called to. If they would step
Ti'heasha Beasley: up and take ownership of that and
Ti'heasha Beasley: say, I want to see this area
Ti'heasha Beasley: be strong, thrive and grow. Like, how,
Ti'heasha Beasley: oh, my gosh, how much we can
Ti'heasha Beasley: really just serve the community when our,
Ti'heasha Beasley: when our church is strong like that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I don't know.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What I love about our church history
Pastor Brent McQuay: is like, that was my dad's approach
Pastor Brent McQuay: to pretty much anything, like, Anytime somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: would come to him and be like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: why don't we have this. This thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: happening? He'd be like, oh, it's great
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea. You should start it, like, every
Pastor Brent McQuay: time. And I saw him do it
Pastor Brent McQuay: over and over again. And. And sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: the person would be like, no, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: no, no.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And nothing would happen. And then sometimes
Pastor Brent McQuay: the person would be like, oh, okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: All right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All right. Yeah. Okay, let's. Let's do
Pastor Brent McQuay: it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Great leadership. One away.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Learn. So much fun just watching him
Pastor Brent McQuay: work.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. So, Ari, look in. You have
Ti'heasha Beasley: been in the project management, even entrepreneurial
Ti'heasha Beasley: space. What? Can you remember a season
Ti'heasha Beasley: where you kind of went before God
Ti'heasha Beasley: and you didn't pray? And you just
Ti'heasha Beasley: had. Because you're a planner. One thing
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know about you is you are
Ti'heasha Beasley: a planner.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: When did you learn to incorporate prayer
Ti'heasha Beasley: into that?
Ari Ogunlana: Oh, man. I think the first time
Ari Ogunlana: that I really. So with my business,
Ari Ogunlana: I'm an event and wedding planner outside
Ari Ogunlana: of here. And so I. I got
Ari Ogunlana: the vision for the business, and I
Ari Ogunlana: just started working immediately. It was like,
Ari Ogunlana: oh, man. Okay, great. I'm getting the
Ari Ogunlana: branding, I'm getting the logo. I'm getting
Ari Ogunlana: all the things I got. And I'm.
Ari Ogunlana: By education, I'm into business marketing, all
Ari Ogunlana: of those things. So I was more
Ari Ogunlana: focused on that part of it than
Ari Ogunlana: the actual strategy of, like, how do
Ari Ogunlana: you want me to serve my clients?
Ari Ogunlana: And so I remember just the beginning
Ari Ogunlana: part of my business. It was, like,
Ari Ogunlana: really fun, fun. But once I had
Ari Ogunlana: to start serving my clients, it got
Ari Ogunlana: really hard and a little frustrating almost,
Ari Ogunlana: because if you think about it, these
Ari Ogunlana: are people's biggest moments of life, right?
Ari Ogunlana: And so they're trusting you with them.
Ari Ogunlana: And so with that comes a lot
Ari Ogunlana: of emotion, a lot of just family
Ari Ogunlana: dynamics, a lot of just tension in
Ari Ogunlana: general. Budgets, money, finances. That can make
Ari Ogunlana: you a little on edge. And so
Ari Ogunlana: they're bringing all of this and kind
Ari Ogunlana: of like, dumping it on you. And
Ari Ogunlana: so it can get frustrating if you're
Ari Ogunlana: not in the right heart space or
Ari Ogunlana: head space. And so I think that
Ari Ogunlana: initial part, it was like, okay, I
Ari Ogunlana: thought this was gonna be really fun
Ari Ogunlana: because I got the colors, I got
Ari Ogunlana: the stuff. But then it's like that
Ari Ogunlana: first client is like, oh, like, I
Ari Ogunlana: really have to put some muscle into
Ari Ogunlana: this and some care and some prayer
Ari Ogunlana: behind it. And so that, I think,
Ari Ogunlana: was, for me, the turning point of
Ari Ogunlana: like, oh, no, I can't do this
Ari Ogunlana: without God. It's enough for him to
Ari Ogunlana: have given me the vision for, but,
Ari Ogunlana: like, I have to continuously pray. And
Ari Ogunlana: I have seen the way that. That
Ari Ogunlana: has impacted my clients over the years
Ari Ogunlana: of, like, man being able to be
Ari Ogunlana: calm, being able to pray for them
Ari Ogunlana: in the moment. And I have seen
Ari Ogunlana: time and time again how that has
Ari Ogunlana: helped someone's day just be infinitely better
Ari Ogunlana: because I'm leading with that prayer and
Ari Ogunlana: leading with that plan that God has
Ari Ogunlana: given me to serve them throughout that
Ari Ogunlana: process. So, yeah, I think for me,
Ari Ogunlana: that's the answer.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. I mean, it is. It is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The older I get, the more I
Ti'heasha Beasley: realize you really need to pray first.
Ari Ogunlana: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like we said, sometimes, like, pray first.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it's a cute thing to put
Ti'heasha Beasley: on social media, but if you do
Ti'heasha Beasley: not pray first, almost the strategy won't
Ti'heasha Beasley: even come.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Or the why won't be where it
Ti'heasha Beasley: should be.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, your heart won't be in the
Ti'heasha Beasley: right place. And so we. We see
Ti'heasha Beasley: a lot of talented people who have
Ti'heasha Beasley: big desires and dreams or aspirations, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: that you can almost see when they
Ti'heasha Beasley: leave God out of it, because it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: just not that it falls apart, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's just like they're operating without a
Ti'heasha Beasley: strategy. And so I. It's a daily
Ti'heasha Beasley: thing because sometimes, you know, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: not to boast of myself, I'd be
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, oh, I know how to. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: then God be like, bring it back.
Ari Ogunlana: Or that discernment to even know what
Ari Ogunlana: you should be taking on. Like, he
Ari Ogunlana: can give you a great strategy and
Ari Ogunlana: a great plan, but if you do
Ari Ogunlana: just one thing outside of that plan,
Ari Ogunlana: sometimes it is not the right thing
Ari Ogunlana: to do. Like, even for me, like,
Ari Ogunlana: I have regretted taking on some clients,
Ari Ogunlana: but I didn't pray about it first.
Ari Ogunlana: I didn't pray about, like, is this
Ari Ogunlana: the right project for me? Is this
Ari Ogunlana: the right wedding? Is this the right
Ari Ogunlana: event? And I could instantly see, oh,
Ari Ogunlana: this is going to be trouble. And
Ari Ogunlana: it was. And so, like, I had
Ari Ogunlana: to learn, like, no, I have to
Ari Ogunlana: even pray and who. And discern who
Ari Ogunlana: is even the right fit for my
Ari Ogunlana: company, who is the right fit for
Ari Ogunlana: me to work with and who I
Ari Ogunlana: can impact beyond the wedding part. Like,
Ari Ogunlana: it's more than just me planning your
Ari Ogunlana: wedding. It's planning a seed for your
Ari Ogunlana: wet, your beyond your wedding. So your
Ari Ogunlana: marriage, your family, your legacy, those type
Ari Ogunlana: of things. And so I think about
Ari Ogunlana: that and I pray about it often.
Ari Ogunlana: And it has led me to have
Ari Ogunlana: more good clients than bad clients. So
Ari Ogunlana: for sure. For sure. The discernment, the
Ari Ogunlana: wisdom and all of that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I was just gonna jump in
Pastor Brent McQuay: with, like. So that's my area of,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, struggle. Honestly speaking. Like, it's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Pray first.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Really?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Why I have to keep reminding myself,
Pastor Brent McQuay: because I'm. I'm such a. I'm a
Pastor Brent McQuay: doer. Like, it's like, I just want
Pastor Brent McQuay: to. Like, there's a problem. Let's solve
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. Let's. Let's jump in. And a
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of times I jump into things,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I'm, like, halfway into it, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then I'm like, oh, oh, yeah. Hey,
Pastor Brent McQuay: God. And what I have to keep
Pastor Brent McQuay: reminding myself is my. My planning might
Pastor Brent McQuay: be good, but his is always going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be better. And so even if
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's just for him to give me
Pastor Brent McQuay: the green light, awesome. But there have
Pastor Brent McQuay: been a lot of times when I
Pastor Brent McQuay: thought I had a great strategy or
Pastor Brent McQuay: plan for how to approach something, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: God gave me something totally different. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: it was. It was almost like struggling.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was like, maybe that was just
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad pizza. Like, maybe I didn't really
Pastor Brent McQuay: hear from God on that one. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: maybe that's just me being weird. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: should probably do my. And, man, every
Pastor Brent McQuay: time when. When I finally give in
Pastor Brent McQuay: and say, okay, God, let's go with
Pastor Brent McQuay: your plan over my plan, it works
Pastor Brent McQuay: out way better.
Ari Ogunlana: So much easier, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So much better, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So is it wise to say that
Ti'heasha Beasley: if you are planning something and it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: not going well, then it's probably something
Ti'heasha Beasley: you shouldn't be doing?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, I. It's hard to make,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, that kind of blanket right on
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Internet. Yeah. Somebody's like, look, Pastor
Pastor Brent McQuay: Brent said I should get divorced because,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, the plan for my marriage is
Pastor Brent McQuay: not working. Okay. No, that's not okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, I would just be. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: A little cautious of that. But it
Pastor Brent McQuay: can be an indication that, like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: may be. Either you've got the wrong
Pastor Brent McQuay: plan or you're not even doing the
Pastor Brent McQuay: right work.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I think that there are times
Pastor Brent McQuay: when. Yeah. We can take on a
Pastor Brent McQuay: project. We can take on something that
Pastor Brent McQuay: wasn't meant for us to do. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Which is why you talk about the.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Pray that you should. The prayer. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: should pray. And so what did you
Ti'heasha Beasley: say?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Wisdom, favor strength.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Wisdom favorite. Same prayer all the time,
Pastor Brent McQuay: applies in any situation. Wisdom favor strength.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that. No, that's good. Start there.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. So you pray for wisdom, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: God. God, what's the right approach for
Pastor Brent McQuay: this? Like, I can go out and
Pastor Brent McQuay: get information. I can gain knowledge. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can take a class. I can watch
Pastor Brent McQuay: a video. I can do all those
Pastor Brent McQuay: things. But knowing what to do with
Pastor Brent McQuay: that stuff, like, that's. That's wisdom, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's what I need more of from.
Pastor Brent McQuay: From God. And so God, I need
Pastor Brent McQuay: your wisdom in this. Because there's 18
Pastor Brent McQuay: different ways I could approach this conversation.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I need the wisdom. Know the right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The right one. And so I need.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I need wisdom. And whatever the situation,
Pastor Brent McQuay: whatever the circumstances are, I need favor.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Favors outside of my control. Right. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's. I love the. The joke of,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, favor ain't fair, but it
Pastor Brent McQuay: sure is fun. And it's true. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there. There are things where, like my
Pastor Brent McQuay: strategy and my plan and the wisdom
Pastor Brent McQuay: that I get from God can still
Pastor Brent McQuay: only take me so far.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But if I have favor with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: person I'm talking with, like, I can.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can go up to somebody and
Pastor Brent McQuay: say the same thing I said to
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody else, but they're more receptive to
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. What is that? I think that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: favor. And so I want to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: praying for favor in every situation, because
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's very rare that I'm dealing with
Pastor Brent McQuay: something that's only involving me. There's always
Pastor Brent McQuay: other people involved. It might be my
Pastor Brent McQuay: wife, it might be my kids. It
Pastor Brent McQuay: might be an employee. It might be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a stranger. It might be somebody I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know. And so I just always
Pastor Brent McQuay: praying for favor. It brings me back
Pastor Brent McQuay: to baby dedications on Sunday. My favorite
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse to use for baby dedications is
Pastor Brent McQuay: Luke 2:52, says that Jesus grew in
Pastor Brent McQuay: wisdom and stature and in favor of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: With both God and man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, I'm always praying, God,
Pastor Brent McQuay: give me your favor.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's the good hand of the Lord
Pastor Brent McQuay: was upon Nehemiah. So I always want
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's favor, but I also want favor
Pastor Brent McQuay: with the people around me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then, honestly, the. The last part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that puzzle is the strength. Because,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, God can give you wisdom. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: can give you favor, but if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: quit in the middle of it or
Pastor Brent McQuay: you chicken out or you run away,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, he. He could have given you
Pastor Brent McQuay: wisdom on how to talk to your
Pastor Brent McQuay: neighbor. He'd give you favor that your
Pastor Brent McQuay: neighbor's actually gonna listen to you. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: if you don't actually walk over to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the fence and start a conversation, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's not gonna work. So we need.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We need the strength to actually do
Pastor Brent McQuay: what we're supposed to do. Gives him
Pastor Brent McQuay: favor strength every time.
Ari Ogunlana: I thought that was really cool to,
Ari Ogunlana: like, give that, because when you were
Ari Ogunlana: talking about it, I realized that I
Ari Ogunlana: do that automatically. And I'm like, okay.
Ari Ogunlana: But I also add clarity because I
Ari Ogunlana: think sometimes you can. You can know
Ari Ogunlana: what to do. But then, like, if
Ari Ogunlana: you are anxious or dist. Attracted or
Ari Ogunlana: whatever, sometimes it can get, like, jumbled
Ari Ogunlana: up, right? And so, like, clarity to
Ari Ogunlana: know, like, what's the stuff to do
Ari Ogunlana: right now? And then Grace, just in
Ari Ogunlana: case you mess up a little bit.
Ari Ogunlana: So I always.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just in case that thing that's probably
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna happen happens.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I thought that was really cool.
Ari Ogunlana: I'm like, oh, I do that, but
Ari Ogunlana: I add these. So I thought it
Ari Ogunlana: was cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm telling you, I needed this message
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, a week ago. I did this
Ti'heasha Beasley: last Sunday. We should have switched out
Ti'heasha Beasley: Esther with Nehemiah because that I needed
Ti'heasha Beasley: all of that grace and everything. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: had IM scheduled for 1 o'. Clock.
Ti'heasha Beasley: In my mind, it was 1 o'.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Clock.
Ari Ogunlana: Okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But on the calendar, it was 11.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So, dude, we're not even gonna go
Ti'heasha Beasley: there.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I'm pretty sure, like, everybody in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the room has been victim of that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I've had times when I put
Pastor Brent McQuay: something on the calendar and I wasn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: paying attention. The calendar would, like, default.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I was scheduling something that's, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a recurring thing. And so, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: when I open up my calendar, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just type in the name of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: person that I'm meeting with, and it
Pastor Brent McQuay: just, it automatically fills in all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: details. And so I just, I went
Pastor Brent McQuay: with it, but it was like, oh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, we were supposed to meet at
Pastor Brent McQuay: 2 o', clock, not 4 o'. Clock,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but it defaults.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm not sweating it, but I'm not
Ti'heasha Beasley: sweating it now. But it's just like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you, you need grace. Yeah. So, no,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love, I love this Nehemiah, like
Ti'heasha Beasley: you said, Pastor Brandt is such a
Ti'heasha Beasley: great book for leaders and people over
Ti'heasha Beasley: projects. It's. It's just so encouraging. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: love how he empowers people. I love
Ti'heasha Beasley: the part when you said they were
Ti'heasha Beasley: building and they had swords in their
Ti'heasha Beasley: hand. Man. Can you talk about a
Ti'heasha Beasley: season where you felt like you were
Ti'heasha Beasley: building, you were planning, and let. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: let's talk about a little bit of
Ti'heasha Beasley: that work that you did, you do
Ti'heasha Beasley: here. Because I had an opportunity. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: have an opportunity to serve with you
Ti'heasha Beasley: here at Disciples Church. And I do
Ti'heasha Beasley: see you come to work with your
Ti'heasha Beasley: sword in your hand.
Ari Ogunlana: Oh, absolutely. I, I, Before I even
Ari Ogunlana: got on staff, I knew the Lord
Ari Ogunlana: had given me a task which was
Ari Ogunlana: to help create order. And so, like,
Ari Ogunlana: in that creating order also includes, like,
Ari Ogunlana: sorting out a lot of mess sometimes.
Ari Ogunlana: And so if you are not careful,
Ari Ogunlana: you can get caught up in the
Ari Ogunlana: mess. Right. And you can get stuck
Ari Ogunlana: in the mess. And the times that
Ari Ogunlana: I have done that, it's when I
Ari Ogunlana: have dropped my sword or I have
Ari Ogunlana: run out of the strength or the
Ari Ogunlana: endurance to keep going, to like, keep
Ari Ogunlana: sorting out stuff. And so I have
Ari Ogunlana: learned over the years, especially as I
Ari Ogunlana: mature as a believer, is I cannot
Ari Ogunlana: drop that sword. Because again, back to
Ari Ogunlana: that discernment thing. And even a part
Ari Ogunlana: of Nehemiah's story, like with the prophet,
Ari Ogunlana: had he not been paying attention, he
Ari Ogunlana: could have easily like hid from the,
Ari Ogunlana: the people who were supposedly coming to
Ari Ogunlana: kill him that night and hiding in
Ari Ogunlana: the temple and all of that. And
Ari Ogunlana: so like, but he discerned like, no,
Ari Ogunlana: this is not right. And so I
Ari Ogunlana: think if you keep, keep going and
Ari Ogunlana: you have that sword and you're in
Ari Ogunlana: a space where you're ready to defend,
Ari Ogunlana: ready to put, protect, ready to fight
Ari Ogunlana: for what you know, God is telling
Ari Ogunlana: you to do, then you can keep
Ari Ogunlana: going and you can keep doing the
Ari Ogunlana: right things and not make those missteps.
Ari Ogunlana: So I feel like a lot of
Ari Ogunlana: times even here, like, if the Lord
Ari Ogunlana: feels like I'm getting off track, he'll
Ari Ogunlana: give me a dream or he'll say,
Ari Ogunlana: hey, like, pull it back in, like,
Ari Ogunlana: think about this or do this. And
Ari Ogunlana: so I have to keep doing, realigning
Ari Ogunlana: ourselves.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So it's really not just about the
Ti'heasha Beasley: planning and it's not a one time
Ti'heasha Beasley: prayer, like you said. It is a,
Ti'heasha Beasley: a constant staying as you're walking, you're
Ti'heasha Beasley: praying. Yeah.
Ari Ogunlana: And even with the people on staff
Ari Ogunlana: with us, I feel like the Lord
Ari Ogunlana: has graced me to be an advocate
Ari Ogunlana: and a helper alongside of people. And
Ari Ogunlana: so if it's, maybe it's you or
Ari Ogunlana: whoever, and I can see the frustration
Ari Ogunlana: or I can see it's like, wait,
Ari Ogunlana: maybe if we tweak this thought or
Ari Ogunlana: tweak this perspective or tweak this action,
Ari Ogunlana: we probably will get a little further
Ari Ogunlana: doing this. And so I have seen
Ari Ogunlana: how that has helped us move forward
Ari Ogunlana: a lot. And so I know that's
Ari Ogunlana: my special little.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is, it is. I will say
Ti'heasha Beasley: you keep me all the way together,
Ti'heasha Beasley: even if it's just like, hey, let's,
Ti'heasha Beasley: let's pray. Yeah, like I've seen you
Ti'heasha Beasley: do that, you know, in our staff,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like not meetings, but like when we
Ti'heasha Beasley: in the office together and we're like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: oh man, we're stuck with this, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: what are we doing? Like, let's pray.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So like on the spot, we'll pray.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I think that's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think the, the reality with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: whole sword thing is like the, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: work has to be defended and there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be outside attacks, but also
Pastor Brent McQuay: internal attacks. Like there's going to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: moments where you're gonna get lazy, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna get tired, you're gonna get distracted
Pastor Brent McQuay: by something. And so, like, part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: that whole being ready to defend the
Pastor Brent McQuay: work.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because it's a great work. Like, that's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, that's the emphasis that Nehemiah
Pastor Brent McQuay: makes. And so it's. It's worth defending
Pastor Brent McQuay: great works.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so if the great work that
Pastor Brent McQuay: God has for you is raising your
Pastor Brent McQuay: family, then, like, you're gonna need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: defend your family from. From a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of stuff. You're gonna need to defend
Pastor Brent McQuay: your marriage, defend your kids.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's. I think that's the symbolism.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, there's a absolutely literal application for
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Jewish people there. I mean, there's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Somebody's gonna come and stab you. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to have a sword on you.
Ari Ogunlana: Absolutely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Spiritual application for us today.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is that we need to be mindful
Pastor Brent McQuay: of. Of the attacks of the enemy
Pastor Brent McQuay: and. Right. To defend.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Ari Ogunlana: Especially working in ministry, it's like constant
Ari Ogunlana: spiritual warfare. It's, like, unmatched. And so,
Ari Ogunlana: like, if you are not careful and
Ari Ogunlana: not mindful of that, you will totally
Ari Ogunlana: miss the mark.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Absolutely, Totally.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Absolutely.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I totally agree. It's like, half of
Ti'heasha Beasley: my job is praying and staying in
Ti'heasha Beasley: scripture and making sure you're constantly checking
Ti'heasha Beasley: your heart. Like.
Ari Ogunlana: You.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Your heart will be yanked as soon
Ti'heasha Beasley: as you get in any type of
Ti'heasha Beasley: leadership role. I won't even say just
Ti'heasha Beasley: staff, but any type of leadership role
Ti'heasha Beasley: within the local.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're really selling that. What are we
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to hire right now? A social
Pastor Brent McQuay: media content creator. You're really selling that
Pastor Brent McQuay: position.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You are going to thrive and grow
Ti'heasha Beasley: and be stretched into great.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just be ready for war.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Be ready for war.
Ari Ogunlana: But it's the truth, though, because when
Ari Ogunlana: people come in, it's like, oh, church
Ari Ogunlana: looks fun. And then everything is so
Ari Ogunlana: great, and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: All we get to do is pray.
Ari Ogunlana: All day, and it's like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you get to work with Christians
Pastor Brent McQuay: all the time. It's got to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: so easy.
Ari Ogunlana: A little bit. But, yeah, when you
Ari Ogunlana: see people struggling through things and walking
Ari Ogunlana: through things, and then it's like, oh,
Ari Ogunlana: wait a minute. This is not easy
Ari Ogunlana: and it's not always fun, but it
Ari Ogunlana: is worth it when you see the
Ari Ogunlana: life change or the seeds planted and
Ari Ogunlana: those type of things. So it's like,
Ari Ogunlana: out of all of this hard work,
Ari Ogunlana: the good part of it is, I've
Ari Ogunlana: done this for God. I'm doing what
Ari Ogunlana: he has called me to, and the
Ari Ogunlana: rest is just not up to me.
Ari Ogunlana: Whatever happens after that, yeah, I've done
Ari Ogunlana: my part and so being mindful of
Ari Ogunlana: that as a leader, I think helps.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. And I think that's where that
Ti'heasha Beasley: perseverance come in. When you understand your.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Why you. When you understand, like, God
Ti'heasha Beasley: has given you this burden. I'm doing
Ti'heasha Beasley: it. There is opposite.
Ari Ogunlana: Why can't I say opposition.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Opposition. There is opposition. There is that
Ti'heasha Beasley: spiritual warfare aspect of things. But I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: not coming down from this post. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so until the work is done. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: I feel like that is the biggest
Ti'heasha Beasley: encouragement for anyone. Not just staff, not
Ti'heasha Beasley: just leaders. But even if you're serving
Ti'heasha Beasley: in any capacity, it's like when you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know God sent you somewhere, you gotta.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You gotta stand strong.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And tall. And I think Nehemiah was
Ti'heasha Beasley: a great example of that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm doing a great work. Why should
Pastor Brent McQuay: the work stop? So I can come
Pastor Brent McQuay: down to you, man. It's like, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: was brilliant. The best response possible.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You know, I was thinking about this
Ti'heasha Beasley: morning when I was thinking about this
Ti'heasha Beasley: episode, we. I think you said something
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, he was the greatest example of
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, like leadership or like, it gave
Ti'heasha Beasley: a lot of tools there. I'm like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I want to know the real, real
Ti'heasha Beasley: story. Like, not. I know that was
Ti'heasha Beasley: the story, but, like, if you took
Ti'heasha Beasley: the highlights of my life, you gonna
Ti'heasha Beasley: say she was a top tier person?
Pastor Brent McQuay: What's the part that they're not?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's funny. I was talking to a
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy actually named Nehemiah after the service,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I was talking about the whole
Pastor Brent McQuay: fact that, like, I mentioned that, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Nehemiah's just one of the only, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: good dudes in the Bible. Like, there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not a whole lot of them.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that. And I was. I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: quick to point out, I'm like, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that doesn't mean that he didn't sin
Pastor Brent McQuay: because the Bible says we've all sinned.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I'm sure that there's something he
Pastor Brent McQuay: got wrong.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That he messed up. But everything that
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have recorded in the Bible, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's never a mo. Even like, his
Pastor Brent McQuay: most, like, harsh moment, like, he. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: kicks out a bunch of people from,
Pastor Brent McQuay: from Israel because they had broken commandments
Pastor Brent McQuay: and broken laws. He's like, chasing them
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of the temple and stuff. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it gets intense. Like, I mean, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: divides families. He's like, hey, you married
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody that you weren't supposed to marry
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it's corrupting the. The people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, because he was reading in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: law, it's like, hey, don't marry the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. The. The people around you. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's like, you did that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so like, man, it was like
Pastor Brent McQuay: he was breaking up families and stuff.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it was crazy. But there was
Pastor Brent McQuay: never a moment where, like, he wasn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: supposed to do that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was always like, he's adhering to
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's word. And so, like, yeah, he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just one of those rare good dudes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we don't know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We don't know everything about his.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right, Right. So highlight reels are, they're
Ti'heasha Beasley: okay. You know, people would be like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: stop showing us your highlight reels. The
Ti'heasha Beasley: Bible shows highlight.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm just playing Nehemiah's highlight reel is,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is quite impressive.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: There was a part, and I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: know if you, if it was relevant
Ti'heasha Beasley: to the message, but I loved in
Ti'heasha Beasley: the story of Nehemiah where he stepped
Ti'heasha Beasley: up as an advocate. So it was,
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was funny that you mentioned that
Ti'heasha Beasley: you felt like one of your jobs
Ti'heasha Beasley: was to advocate for people. Even, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you can tell his heart wasn't necessarily
Ti'heasha Beasley: the position, even though he got the
Ti'heasha Beasley: position with his leadership, like, stepping up
Ti'heasha Beasley: to the club.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. They later refer to him as
Pastor Brent McQuay: the governor.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, he, he takes on a leadership
Pastor Brent McQuay: role.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So it's, It's. It was amazing
Ti'heasha Beasley: to see, like, even how, you know,
Ti'heasha Beasley: he didn't take, he didn't take the
Ti'heasha Beasley: perks of coming that went along with
Ti'heasha Beasley: that title. He just really used that
Ti'heasha Beasley: to, like, serve people and be fair
Ti'heasha Beasley: to people. And so he was a
Ti'heasha Beasley: outstanding guy. And I, I, I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: know if that's learned or taught, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: we need to see that in 2025.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What do you say? Catch it. We
Ti'heasha Beasley: need y' all to catch this. His.
Ti'heasha Beasley: His heart behind really was to, To.
Ti'heasha Beasley: To serve God's people, protect God's people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And I think that's the difference when
Ti'heasha Beasley: you are in entrepreneurship, because I was
Ti'heasha Beasley: in entrepreneurship for a while. There's this
Ti'heasha Beasley: thing you can do where you can
Ti'heasha Beasley: position yourself. So everything you do is,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, your strategy is, I want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: make myself look the best. Yeah. All
Ti'heasha Beasley: the time. So that I can keep
Ti'heasha Beasley: getting hired.
Ari Ogunlana: Hate it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You hate.
Ari Ogunlana: You know, like, hate it. Honestly, like,
Ari Ogunlana: that was the worst once. You know
Ari Ogunlana: what the way the wedding and event
Ari Ogunlana: planning industry works is all about. The
Ari Ogunlana: most beautiful picture. It's all about this
Ari Ogunlana: just fabulous highlight reel. And so when
Ari Ogunlana: I was trying to do that, it
Ari Ogunlana: was the worst time of my business.
Ari Ogunlana: And when I stopped posting or stopped
Ari Ogunlana: caring about that and showing, like, this
Ari Ogunlana: is how I helped this client, or
Ari Ogunlana: this was the love story, or this
Ari Ogunlana: was the friendship that came out of
Ari Ogunlana: it, or even one of my clients
Ari Ogunlana: they ended up being members here because
Ari Ogunlana: I had told them about our church
Ari Ogunlana: and, you know, stuff like that. And
Ari Ogunlana: so, like, once I stopped focusing on
Ari Ogunlana: the positioning. Positioning, and, like, this is
Ari Ogunlana: why I'm the best. Or this is
Ari Ogunlana: why, like, I'm just gonna be me.
Ari Ogunlana: I'm. I don't have to show you
Ari Ogunlana: that. You're gonna see it from what
Ari Ogunlana: I naturally do.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Ari Ogunlana: And it got so much easier as
Ari Ogunlana: a business owner when I stopped trying
Ari Ogunlana: to show up as what Instagram says
Ari Ogunlana: or TikTok or whatever. Just being myself.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. And that's what I wanted to
Ti'heasha Beasley: get to is I feel like that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: one of the biggest downfalls of, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: our generation. Everyone is trying to show
Ti'heasha Beasley: that highlight. Everyone is trying to position
Ti'heasha Beasley: themselves. And the biggest strategy that I.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I learned really quickly is keeping close
Ti'heasha Beasley: with God, like, staying in relationship with
Ti'heasha Beasley: him and moving. How he say move.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And honestly, it's not about positioning yourself.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's about answering the burden. Yeah. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's when you thrive. Like, when you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I always told, when I used to
Ti'heasha Beasley: teach, like, a little bit on business,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I would tell them it's not about
Ti'heasha Beasley: that cute post. It's about doing your
Ti'heasha Beasley: best on that project and letting them
Ti'heasha Beasley: go out.
Ari Ogunlana: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And be your test. You know, if
Ti'heasha Beasley: you care about the person you're serving,
Ti'heasha Beasley: then you don't have to worry about,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, positioning yourself. And I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: you can see that in Nehemiah's story
Ti'heasha Beasley: where it's like, he didn't come there
Ti'heasha Beasley: with no agenda to become the governor.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He wanted to rebuild the wall to
Ti'heasha Beasley: help protect the people. His heart was
Ti'heasha Beasley: for the people. And it's like, sometimes
Ti'heasha Beasley: we get that twisted in 2025 where
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's like, oh, I need to do
Ti'heasha Beasley: this for me. And we forget, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: people. We forget the people we. We're
Ti'heasha Beasley: called to serve. So.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, self promotion just looks exhausting. It.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is. Really is. It is. Is
Ti'heasha Beasley: exhausting. So. Yeah. No, well, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's time to land. Unless I miss
Ti'heasha Beasley: something.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, we. We can talk. As
Pastor Brent McQuay: long as you want to talk.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Well, I think it's time to
Ti'heasha Beasley: land the plane. So. In this.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're so. You're so gun shy on
Pastor Brent McQuay: that one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because I told you I'm the co
Ti'heasha Beasley: host and you're the host, so I
Ti'heasha Beasley: default to.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You meant equal. Like, no working together.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So what do you think? We've been
Ti'heasha Beasley: having this debate for, like, the whole
Ti'heasha Beasley: series now. Co host me. Okay. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: follow the lead of the host, correct?
Ari Ogunlana: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: If you all.
Ari Ogunlana: If host and co host are the
Ari Ogunlana: titles but if it's two co hosts,
Ari Ogunlana: then you work together, so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: See, See, I don't know that I've.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Ever called myself the host, have I?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. It's like I'm the host of
Ti'heasha Beasley: Between Sermons.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not one of the hosts. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know. We got to roll back
Pastor Brent McQuay: the tape. I don't know. Words come
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of my mouth. I can't be
Pastor Brent McQuay: responsible for them.
Ari Ogunlana: It's like assistant director and director, Like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sure, yeah.
Ari Ogunlana: Or if you have co directors.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right? Yeah, yeah. I've always viewed it
Pastor Brent McQuay: as a co.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. All right.
Ari Ogunlana: Well, you all play well off of
Ari Ogunlana: each other.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It works. It works. It works. For
Ti'heasha Beasley: now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: For now. Are you trying to replace
Pastor Brent McQuay: me?
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think the content creator.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Are you trying to replace yourself? I
Pastor Brent McQuay: thought you were trying to get rid
Pastor Brent McQuay: of me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, not you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, you know, between sermons with Soul
Pastor Brent McQuay: McQuay would be a lot better than.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, you said it, not me. No,
Ti'heasha Beasley: just playing. I'm just playing. Playing. No,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think that. I think the conversations
Ti'heasha Beasley: are always good, but in this part
Ti'heasha Beasley: of the segment, we try to choose
Ti'heasha Beasley: something to highlight that is really applicable
Ti'heasha Beasley: to those who are watching. So if
Ti'heasha Beasley: you had to give a takeaway to
Ti'heasha Beasley: those watching from this sermon, what would
Ti'heasha Beasley: it be?
Ari Ogunlana: Man, that's a great question. I would
Ari Ogunlana: say, just honestly, the three points, if
Ari Ogunlana: you can remember those, you will get
Ari Ogunlana: much further. Plan, pray, plan, persevere. That
Ari Ogunlana: is just the highlight of all of
Ari Ogunlana: it, because if you. You can apply
Ari Ogunlana: that to literally anything. And if you
Ari Ogunlana: can do that, then.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You can win and shout out to
Pastor Brent McQuay: Pastor Jerry for that one. Because the
Pastor Brent McQuay: original message was, pray like Nehemiah, plan
Pastor Brent McQuay: like Nehemiah, and stay focused like Nehemiah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then Pastor Jerry was like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, you could do a persevere, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: you have the alliteration.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He did. Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love that, Pastor Jay. That's. That's
Pastor Brent McQuay: why you're still the goat, right?
Ari Ogunlana: Three P's. I love it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The goat. I love that. So that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: good. I think that's good. What about
Ti'heasha Beasley: you?
Pastor Brent McQuay: For me, it all comes down to
Pastor Brent McQuay: the great work. I think the. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: real takeaway for people needs to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you have a great work to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do, and you need to stay focused
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the great work. And the work
Pastor Brent McQuay: is great because of the great God
Pastor Brent McQuay: who gave it to you. It's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: because we have a podcast, so we
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a great work.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's not standing on a stage. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not about the number of influences or
Pastor Brent McQuay: influencers or the money, the dollar signs.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, none of that. The Work is
Pastor Brent McQuay: great simply because a great God gave
Pastor Brent McQuay: it to you. And so if the
Pastor Brent McQuay: great work for you to do is
Pastor Brent McQuay: raising your family, that is a great
Pastor Brent McQuay: work. Like, don't. Don't downplay it. Don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at it as less than it
Pastor Brent McQuay: is. It is the great thing that
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's got for you. And all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: this really comes out of what the
Pastor Brent McQuay: real purpose of the series was. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: know, we're called in the same way.
Pastor Brent McQuay: When Jesus called his disciples, he said,
Pastor Brent McQuay: come, follow me, and I'll make you
Pastor Brent McQuay: fishers of men. So there's. There's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: following Jesus being transformed by Jesus and
Pastor Brent McQuay: joining the mission of Jesus. That's our
Pastor Brent McQuay: calling.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so that's. That's a great work.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, to follow Jesus to allow him
Pastor Brent McQuay: to turn you into him so that
Pastor Brent McQuay: every day you're more like him and
Pastor Brent McQuay: less like you, all so that you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can go and make disciples. Examples like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's a great work. Let's focus on
Pastor Brent McQuay: it.
Ari Ogunlana: Can I ask you a question?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Absolutely.
Ari Ogunlana: So you know how with Nehemiah, he
Ari Ogunlana: had this burden, right? He was grieved.
Ari Ogunlana: What if you are not grieved by
Ari Ogunlana: anything or you don't know what that
Ari Ogunlana: feels like? So how do you find
Ari Ogunlana: your great work?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. So I think that that's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: brilliant question, because not everybody is. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: just because something grieves you doesn't necessarily
Pastor Brent McQuay: mean that's your work. Like, it can
Pastor Brent McQuay: be like a billboard, I guess, an
Pastor Brent McQuay: indication. That's probably the fancy word that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was looking for, of what your
Pastor Brent McQuay: great work is, but it's not a
Pastor Brent McQuay: guarantee. Like, there's a lot of things
Pastor Brent McQuay: that bother me that I know that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not supposed to do anything about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So understanding, calling. First of all, it
Pastor Brent McQuay: starts with the great work is following
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus, being transformed by Jesus, joining the
Pastor Brent McQuay: mission of Jesus. If we focus on
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, we'll be good. Now, the assignment,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think, is the way we kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of started describing it in the podcast
Pastor Brent McQuay: can look different. Like, how does that
Pastor Brent McQuay: look? And so for somebody, that could
Pastor Brent McQuay: be the thing that grieves you. For
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody else, it could be, man, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: know what? God placed me in this
Pastor Brent McQuay: business. I've got this influence with people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: How can I use this for his
Pastor Brent McQuay: glory? That could be the great work.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I think it's just part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of it would be go to growth
Pastor Brent McQuay: track. I always say that just because
Pastor Brent McQuay: for me, I love. We stole this
Pastor Brent McQuay: from Rick Warren, but he talks about
Pastor Brent McQuay: how everybody is shaped. You've got spiritual
Pastor Brent McQuay: gifts, you've got heart, you've got abilities,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you've got a personality, and you've got
Pastor Brent McQuay: experiences. S H A P E. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: those five things, when you look at
Pastor Brent McQuay: them in conjunction, you can really identify
Pastor Brent McQuay: the work that God has for you,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the assignment that he has for you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because we all have abilities and talents
Pastor Brent McQuay: and we all have experiences that will
Pastor Brent McQuay: lead us in a direction. And then
Pastor Brent McQuay: knowing how God has spiritually gifted you
Pastor Brent McQuay: and how your personality plays into things,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then it's the heart, it's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: passion, it's the, the thing that grieves
Pastor Brent McQuay: you or the thing that excites you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it can work both ways. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the thing that makes you the most
Pastor Brent McQuay: mad or the thing that makes you
Pastor Brent McQuay: the most happy. It could be somewhere
Pastor Brent McQuay: in there that you're going to find
Pastor Brent McQuay: your calling.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Go to Growth Track. My. My
Pastor Brent McQuay: recommendation.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or at least play around with that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay. What, what is my spiritual gifts?
Pastor Brent McQuay: What is my heart? My passion for
Pastor Brent McQuay: things? What abilities do I have?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I could have a passion for
Pastor Brent McQuay: music, but if I don't have an
Pastor Brent McQuay: ability in the music field, like, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: probably not my calling. My personality, which,
Pastor Brent McQuay: which really, like, dictates, like, how you
Pastor Brent McQuay: operate within your calling. So like my
Pastor Brent McQuay: personality, very introverted, very analytical. So like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I lean towards those operations. And then
Pastor Brent McQuay: the final one is your experiences. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: what, what have you gone through? What
Pastor Brent McQuay: education do you have? What experiences you
Pastor Brent McQuay: have, Good and bad. But all of
Pastor Brent McQuay: that kind of works together.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Amen. That's kind of very practical. Thanks
Ti'heasha Beasley: for that question.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What's your takeaway?
Ti'heasha Beasley: My takeaway is, you know, the prayer
Ti'heasha Beasley: that you said, like, if we could
Ti'heasha Beasley: just start there, our lives will be
Ti'heasha Beasley: better.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So just pray or the Jesus help
Pastor Brent McQuay: or no.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, I like the Jesus help wisdom.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The wisdom, favor and strength was, was
Ti'heasha Beasley: something. I'm going to start praying daily,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like adding that to my prayer routine
Ti'heasha Beasley: daily, because we need that daily. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: I also liked how you said, jesus
Ti'heasha Beasley: help man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's a full prayer right there.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm about to start saying that under
Ti'heasha Beasley: my breath, and then it doesn't help
Ti'heasha Beasley: because you can read my face a
Ti'heasha Beasley: lot. So when you just see me
Ti'heasha Beasley: having that deep face, you know I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: praying Jesus.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Honestly, that's. So I still, I pray
Pastor Brent McQuay: the wisdom, favor, strength, a lot. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think the number one prayer I
Pastor Brent McQuay: pray in this season is Jesus, help
Pastor Brent McQuay: man. I need some help, and it
Pastor Brent McQuay: needs to come from Jesus and he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: come quickly.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So that would be, I should add
Ti'heasha Beasley: that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's, that's, that's. Maybe that's My. My
Pastor Brent McQuay: problem. I haven't been adding the quickly
Pastor Brent McQuay: help and help Jesus. Help whenever you
Pastor Brent McQuay: want, whenever it's convenient. I need help
Pastor Brent McQuay: now.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I think that would be my
Ti'heasha Beasley: takeaway. I think that's such. It's so
Ti'heasha Beasley: important just to pray, man. It's so
Ti'heasha Beasley: important. So we hope you enjoyed this
Ti'heasha Beasley: conversation. Let us know what your biggest
Ti'heasha Beasley: takeaway is. I know we've never done
Ti'heasha Beasley: that, but I think that this sermon
Ti'heasha Beasley: has some very good application to it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So first, go back and watch it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's on our YouTube channel. You can
Ti'heasha Beasley: watch it at We Are Disciples Church.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And also, when you watch this episode,
Ti'heasha Beasley: let us know what your biggest takeaway
Ti'heasha Beasley: is. We would love to read through
Ti'heasha Beasley: those because I think this was a
Ti'heasha Beasley: really good sermon filled with application and
Ti'heasha Beasley: a great way to conclude our Call
Ti'heasha Beasley: it series.
Ari Ogunlana: Great series.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Great series.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're excited about the next one, though.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We know the next one. Do you
Ti'heasha Beasley: want to tell people what it is
Ti'heasha Beasley: or you want to just let it
Ti'heasha Beasley: roll? Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're gonna walk through the book of
Pastor Brent McQuay: First Peter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So and we. We're actually. It's almost
Pastor Brent McQuay: like a continuation because we're going to
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at Peter's life kind of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: same way we looked at other people's
Pastor Brent McQuay: lives.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: His book, but yeah, five chapters. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: could read all of it before Sunday
Pastor Brent McQuay: and kind of have an idea of
Pastor Brent McQuay: where we're going.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. So that's going to be great.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm excited for that. I'm sure we're
Ti'heasha Beasley: gonna have Pastor Carlson on the show
Ti'heasha Beasley: because when y' all start getting geeky
Ti'heasha Beasley: like that is when y'. All.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, he is preaching on October 5th.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The first Sunday, we have three services.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're going to three services. And I'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: be in the Philippines.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, wow.
Ari Ogunlana: Poor Carlton. Right?
Ti'heasha Beasley: So stretch your hands towards Pastor Carlton
Ti'heasha Beasley: and pray for him. But thank you
Ti'heasha Beasley: for tuning in. And until next time,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we love you, and we'll see you
Ti'heasha Beasley: next week.